---
layout:  post
title:   "FAQ"
date:    2016-07-13 22:37:26 -0400
link:    faq
ordinal: 4
---

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Q: What was the process the Pastoral Selection Committee used to review candidates?  
A: PSC has been working with Vanderblomen, a national search firm that specializes in Church Staffing. Vanderbloemen collected resumes from more than 100 potential candidates. They then reviewed those resumes using their proven innovative techniques to present to the PSC team their top recommendations. Each candidate provided two or more recorded sermons, a resume, and a personal interview video (including Scott). This list was then narrowed down to PSC’s top candidates. PSC then did their own interviews with the candidates, then voted for their top recommendation to the Board of Directors.  A majority vote from the PSC committee was required before any candidate would be presented to the congregation.

### Q: What criteria was used to select the candidate?  
A: Proven track record to lead a large organization (including a school), develop and grow a healthy church, outstanding communication skills and love for people and culture. Impactful, scripture-based messages, willingness to lead the way for community involvement and networking to always be building connections from the church to our surrounding community. Strong, proven leadership qualities and passion for showing us all through example how we can be the hands and feet of Christ. Each candidate was considered based on the same criteria and then ranked accordingly.

### Q: What do the church bylaws say about the pastoral search?
A: Here is the applicable section of the bylaws:

>PROCESS WITHOUT DEPARTING PASTOR’S PARTICIPATION 
If the Senior Pastor is removed by the Overseers, has resigned, is deceased, or cannot or will not participate in the selection process of the new Senior Pastor for any reason, the following shall be the process for selecting a new Senior Pastor:  

>FORMATION OF PASTORAL SELECTION COMMITTEE  
A pastoral selection committee of at least 7 people comprised of the following: 
1. 2 senior full-time pastoral staff members  
2. 2 active members of Polaris Church (non staff, no spouses or family members  of current or former staff)  
3. 1 Board of Director member  
4. 2 Overseers  

>The duty of the Pastoral Selection Committee is to provide an interim pastor or guest speakers to conduct church services. However, neither an interim pastor nor a replacement speaker shall have the corporate powers of President. The committee is to recommend a new Senior Pastor as soon as an acceptable candidate is available. That person must be a licensed or ordained minister of the gospel. 

>The candidate must be approved by a majority of the Pastoral Selection Committee before being presented to the Board of Directors and Pastoral Team. Once the pastoral search committee recommends a senior pastoral candidate, at least 3 sermons will be reviewed by the Board of Directors and Pastoral Team with a minimum of one being on site at a primary weekend service. Afterward, a meeting of the Board of Directors and Pastoral Team will be held. At that meeting, a vote to either accept or reject the pastoral candidate will be held. A two-thirds (2/3) vote of those members attending the meeting is required to elect the next Senior Pastor. When a two-thirds (2/3) vote in favor of the candidate does not occur, the Pastoral Selection Committee shall seek another candidate.


### Q: Who is on the Pastoral Selection Committee?  
A: The bylaws required  
* (2) senior full-time pastoral staff members
* (2) active members of Polaris Church (non staff, no spouses or family members of current or former staff)
* (2) Board of Director member (1 more than the bylaws)
* (2) Overseers 


### Q: What's next?  
A: We have a whole page dedicated to the next steps. Please [click here to read more.]({{ site.baseurl }}/#next-steps)


### Q: Where can I submit my feedback after watching the sermon on August 7th?
A: Feedback forms will be available online as well as hard copy. Come back to this site on August 7th for more information. 

### Q: Who can I talk to if I want to know more?  
A: The Board of Directors or the Pastoral staff would love to hear from you. Please see us or feel free to email us at [PCBoard@polaris.church](mailto:PCBoard@polaris.church)