---
layout: post
title: The Process
date: '2016-07-13 22:37:26 -0400'
link: process
ordinal: 1
published: true
---

## The Pastoral Search Process - UPDATE  

### 8-16-2016 
>On Sunday evening August 14th, in accordance with our church bylaws, there was a meeting of the Board of Directors and the entire pastoral staff in which a unanimous vote was given in favor of installing Pete Hixson as the new Senior Pastor of Polaris Church. This was the culmination of much searching, due diligence and prayer. We want to thank you for the feedback given in the process which helped us move forward with confidence that we have the right person to lead us into the next season of our church. Additional information on Pete’s background, including his resume, has been added below. [--> Link]({{ site.baseurl }}/#about)  

>A church business meeting will be held this Sunday, August 21, at noon. We will fill you in on some additional updates and answer questions you may have. Please make plans to stick around after church to be a part of this meeting.  

>If you have questions that you would like to ask directly to our board of directors, please email them at: [PCBoard@polaris.church](mailto:PCBoard@polaris.church)  

>We are excited about the next chapter in our church and believe that God is leading us every step of the way.  

>Prayerfully,  
>Polaris Church Pastoral Staff and Board of Directors  




As we have shared with you over the past several months, we are in the process of choosing the Senior Pastor for Polaris Church. The Board of Directors is following the process set forth by the church bylaws to make this decision. The Pastoral Search Committee was formed consisting of members of the church, church staff, board members, and members from the board of overseers to oversee this process.  
{: .process :}

A well-respected national Search firm was then hired to begin screening candidates from across the country who meet the specifications for our Senior Pastor set forth by the Board of Directors. The search committee has spent countless hours reviewing applicants to narrow down those who would be considered. From this pool, the top seven were determined by the committee. They then submitted their top candidate to the board to be interviewed.  
{: .process :}

The next step in the process is for this candidate to speak before the church. On August 7 you will have the opportunity to hear the Senior Pastor Candidate, Pete Hixson, speak to our congregation. We’ll also have a meet and greet after service to meet him and his family as well as ask questions.  During the following week, the board welcomes your input and will field additional questions via email. This is a very significant decision in the life of our church and we ask you to pray this week for God's will to be revealed.  
{: .process :}


### Polaris Church Bylaws
>"The committee is to recommend a new Senior Pastor as soon as an acceptable candidate is available. That person must be a licensed or ordained minister of the gospel. The candidate must be approved by a majority of the Pastoral Selection Committee before being presented to the Board of Directors and Pastoral Team. Once the pastoral search committee recommends a senior pastoral candidate, at least 3 sermons will be reviewed by the Board of Directors and Pastoral Team with a minimum of one being on site at a primary weekend service. Afterward, a meeting of the Board of Directors and Pastoral Team will be held. At that meeting, a vote to either accept or reject the pastoral candidate will be held. A two-thirds (2/3) vote of those members attending the meeting is required to elect the next Senior Pastor. When a two-thirds (2/3) vote in favor of the candidate does not occur, the Pastoral Selection Committee shall seek another candidate."


<center>
<H3> What we searched for</H3>
</center>
<br>

<center>
<table style="width:75%">
<tr>
<th style="width:33%; text-decoration: underline;">CHARACTER</th>
<th style="width:33%; text-decoration: underline;">COMPETENCE</th>
<th style="width:34%;text-decoration: underline;">CULTURE</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>A godly and humble servant leader </td>
<td>A skilled communicator of God’s Word and a visionary leader</td>
<td>A natural fit with the theology and culture of Polaris Church and our passion for transformed lives</td>
</tr>
</table>
</center>
